[docs] Update customization/components and customization/global pages (#24016)
mui-org/material-ui: docs/src/pages/customization/components/components.md

As components can be used in different contexts, there are several approaches to this. Going from the narrowest use-case to the broadest, these are:

1. [One-time customization](#1-one-time-customization)
1. [Reusable style overrides](#2-reusable-style-overrides)
1. [Dynamic variation](#3-dynamic-variation)
1. [Global theme variation](#4-global-theme-variation)

## 1. One-time customization

You might need to change the style of a component for a specific implementation, for which you have the following solutions available:

### Use the `sx` prop

> The easiest way to add style overrides for a one-time situation is to use the `sx` prop available on all Material-UI components. Here is an example of it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to add style overrides for a one-time situation is to use the `sx` prop available on all Material-UI components. Here is an example:
```

{{"demo": "pages/customization/components/SxProp.js"}}

> You may can see on the previous example, that you may use global class selectors for accessing slots inside the component, as well as theme callback for getting access to the theme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice in the previous example that you can use global class selectors for accessing slots inside the component, as well as a theme callback for accessing the theme.
```
"You may" - you are permitted to
"You can" - you are able to

Next you'll see how you can easily identify the classes which are available to you for each of the states and slots in the component.

### Use the dev tools to identify the slots global classes

The browser dev tools can save you a lot of time.
Material-UI's class names [follow a simple pattern](/styles/advanced/#class-names) in development mode:
`Mui[component name]-[style rule name]-[UUID]`.

Let's go back to the above demo. How can you override the slider's thumb?

![dev-tools](/static/images/customization/dev-tools.png)

Using the dev tools, now you know that you need to target the `MuiSlider-thumb` className for overriding the look of the thumb slot:

{{"demo": "pages/customization/components/DevTools.js"}}

### Overriding styles with class names

> If you would like to override the styles of the components using classes, you can use the `className` prop available on each component. For overriding the styles of the slots inside the component, you may use the global classes available for each slot, as described in the previous section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to override the styles of the components using classes, you can use the `className` prop available on each component. For overriding the styles of the slots inside the component, you can use the global classes available for each slot, as described in the previous section.
```

> You may find different interoperability examples on the [Styles library interoperability](/guides/interoperability/) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find different interoperability examples in the [Styles library interoperability](/guides/interoperability/) guide.
```

As components can be used in different contexts, there are several approaches to this. Going from the narrowest use-case to the broadest, these are:

> 1. [Specific variation for a one-time situation](#1-specific-variation-for-a-one-time-situation)

Reviewer 2: What do you think about simplifying the headers to make them easier to understand? (too much information to process otherwise)

```suggestion
1. [One-time customization](#1-one-time-customization)
```

> 1. [Specific variations for reusable style overrides](#2-specific-variations-for-reusable-style-overrides)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Reusable style overrides](#2-reusable-style-overrides)
```

> 1. [Dynamic variation for a one-time situation](#3-dynamic-variation-for-a-one-time-situation)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Dynamic variation](#3-dynamic-variation)
```

> 1. [Material Design variations](#4-material-design-variations) such as with the button component

Reviewer 2: Does it even fit in this context?

```suggestion
```

Author: I was also a bit surprised to see it here, let's remove it, it has nothing to do with customization

1. [Global theme variation](#5-global-theme-variation)

## 1. Specific variation for a one-time situation

You might need to change the style of a component for a specific implementation, for which you have the following solutions available:

### Use the `sx` prop available on all Material-UI components

The easiest way to add style overrides for a one-time situation is to use the `sx` prop available on all Material-UI components. Here is an example of it:

{{"demo": "pages/customization/components/SxProp.js"}}

You may see in the examples, that you may use global class selectors as well for accessing slots inside the component, as well as theme callback for getting access to the theme.

### Overriding styles with classes

> If you would like to override the styles of the components using classes, you can use the `className` property available on each component. For overriding the styles of the slots inside the component, you may use the global classes available for each slot, or you may add custom classes using the `componentsProps` API.

Author: Yeah, I was trying to reflect that `classes={{ slot: '' }}` can be converted to `componentsProps={{ slot: { className: ''} }}`, but I'd say we should move to advertise the global classes. Will restructure this.

The list of classes for each
component is documented in the component API page, you should refer to the **CSS section** and **rule name column**.
For instance, you can have a look at the [Button CSS API](/api/button/#css).
Alternatively, you can use the [browser dev tools](#using-the-dev-tools).

This example also uses `withStyles()` (see above), but here, `ClassesNesting` is using `Button`'s `classes` prop to
provide an object that maps the **names of classes to override** (style rules) to the **CSS class names to apply** (values).
The component's existing classes will continue to be injected, so it is only necessary to provide the specific styles
you wish to add or override.

Notice that in addition to the button styling, the button label's capitalization has been changed:

{{"demo": "pages/customization/components/ClassesNesting.js"}}

### Overriding styles with global class names

[Follow this section](/styles/advanced/#with-material-ui-core).

> ### Using the dev tools

Author: Added

### Overriding styles with class names

> If you would like to override the styles of the components using classes, you can use the `className` prop available on each component. For overriding the styles of the slots inside the component, you can use the global classes available for each slot, as described in the previous section.

Reviewer: So this is where it gets confusing. A "slot" is just a placeholder where you plug in some component to fill the gap, right? So you can't style a slot, as that's like styling an empty seat in a car, as opposed to the person sitting in it.

(Or I'm still misunderstanding the "slots" terminology)

Reviewer 2: This sounds about right, the slot should likely refer to the placeholder, slots are occupied by components.

Author: Maybe we should restructure to:

> To override the styles of different elements in your component

or

> To override the styles of different parts of your component

Author: Updated with https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/pull/24016/commits/4b75ea0af6a5381d07318ee718861687eb494d6b

Here is an example with the _disable_ state and the button component using a **pseudo-class** (`:disabled`):

```css
.Slider {
  color: black;
}
/* Increase the specificity */
.Slider:disabled {
  color: white;
}
```

```jsx
<Slider disabled className="Slider">
```

> Sometimes, you can't use a **pseudo-class** as the state doesn't exist in the platform.

Reviewer: Any idea what "platform" refers to here?

Reviewer 2: The user-agent

> Sometimes, you can't use a **pseudo-class** as the state doesn't exist in the platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, you can't use a **pseudo-class**, as the state doesn't exist in the web specification.
```

> For consistency, Material-UI increases the specificity of its custom pseudo-classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For consistency with native elements, Material-UI increases the specificity of its custom pseudo-classes.
```

#### What custom pseudo-classes are available in Material-UI?

You can rely on the following [global class names](/styles/advanced/#with-material-ui-core) generated by Material-UI:

| State         | Global class name   |
| :------------ | :------------------ |
| checked       | `.Mui-checked`      |
| disabled      | `.Mui-disabled`     |
| error         | `.Mui-error`        |
| focused       | `.Mui-focused`      |
| focus visible | `.Mui-focusVisible` |
| required      | `.Mui-required`     |
| expanded      | `.Mui-expanded`     |
| selected      | `.Mui-selected`     |

> ⚠️ Never style these pseudo-class class names directly:

```css
/* ❌ NOT OK, impact all the components with unclear side-effects */
.Mui-error {
  color: red;
}

/* ✅ OK */
.MuiOutinedInput-root.Mui-error {
  color: red;
}
```

## 2. Reusable style overrides

If you find that you need the same overrides in multiple places across your application, you can use the `experimentalStyled()` utility for creating a reusable component:

{{"demo": "pages/customization/components/StyledCustomization.js", "defaultCodeOpen": true}}

> You have with it access to all components props to dynamically style the component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With it, you have access to all of component's props to dynamically style the component.
```

## 3. Dynamic variation

> You have learned how to override the style of a Material-UI component in the previous section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous section, we learned how to override the style of a Material-UI component.
```

> [When should I use inline-style vs classes?](/getting-started/faq/#when-should-i-use-inline-style-vs-css)

Author: I've removed the inline style section, as agreed in https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/pull/24016#discussion_r542910749

## 2. Specific variations for reusable style overrides

> If you see yourself needing the same overrides on multiple places across your application, you can use the `experimentalStyled()` utility from `@mateial-ui/core/styles` for creating a reusable component.

Reviewer 2: To make it easier to understand?

````suggestion
If you see yourself needing the same overrides on multiple places across your application, you can use the `experimentalStyled()` utility for creating a reusable component:

```js
import { experimentalStyled() as styled } from `@mateial-ui/core/styles`;
```
````

| expanded     | Mui-expanded      |
| selected     | Mui-selected      |

## 2. Reusable style overrides

> If you see yourself needing the same overrides on multiple places across your application, you can use the `experimentalStyled()` utility for creating a reusable component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you find that you need the same overrides in multiple places across your application, you can use the `experimentalStyled()` utility for creating a reusable component:
```

{{"demo": "pages/customization/components/StyledCustomization.js", "defaultCodeOpen": true}}

> With it, you have access to all of component's props to dynamically style the component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With it, you have access to all of a component's props to dynamically style the component.
```

{{"demo": "pages/customization/components/DynamicCSSVariables.js"}}

### Theme nesting

{{"demo": "pages/customization/components/DynamicThemeNesting.js"}}

## 4. Global theme variation

In order to promote consistency between components, and manage the user interface appearance as a whole, Material-UI provides a mechanism to apply global changes.

> Please take a look on the [theme's global page](/customization/globals/) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please take a look at the theme's [global overrides page](/customization/globals/) for more details.
```

Reviewer: We might want to update the page name 🙂

Author: I was thinking about the same thing, I believe that page should be customization/components, as it describes the `theme.components` options, but it would have a conflict with the name of the page I am updating now :D... So maybe `Global overrides` would be a better name..

Author: I'll do the renaming of the page in a separate PR to avoid too many changes here.
